
tell me about toygrid

Toygrid is a proof-of-concept (PoC) microfrontend project that
demonstrates a collaborative editor. It is based on Tiptap, a popular
editor for the web, and Yjs, a real-time collaboration framework that
enables users to collaborate on shared documents simultaneously.

To run the Toygrid server, you can use the following command: ``` cd
server && go run . ~/lab/cswg/toygrid/public ```

The collaborative editor can be set up using various components and
configurations, such as Collaboration and CollaborationCursor. The
WebSocket URL and Yjs WebSocket Server URL are used to establish the
connection for real-time collaboration.

Toygrid's codebase includes React frontend components, styles, and
scripts for the collaborative editor, deployment, and more. The
documentation provides examples of various commands, configurations,
and links for learning more about different features and advanced
configurations.

what is yjs?

Yjs is a real-time collaboration framework that allows users to work
together on shared documents simultaneously. It is designed for
peer-to-peer collaborative editing and supports various data
synchronization protocols, data models, and data structures. Yjs
enables developers to build collaborative applications such as text
editors, spreadsheets, and design tools while providing conflict
resolution and offline editing capabilities. It can be used with
various frontend libraries like Tiptap, Quill, and ACE, and can be
integrated with different communication protocols like WebSockets and
WebRTC.

can yjs be used without a central server?

Yes, Yjs can be used without a central server. It is designed to
support peer-to-peer (P2P) collaboration, allowing users to work
together on shared documents directly. In P2P mode, data is
synchronized between users without a central server by using WebRTC or
other P2P communication protocols.

However, using a central server, like the y-websocket server, can
provide additional benefits such as handling more connections,
ensuring data persistence, and better supporting users behind
restrictive firewalls. But if your use case doesn't require these
benefits, you can use Yjs in a purely P2P manner.

does Yjs support protocol plugins?

Yes, Yjs supports protocol plugins. It is designed to be highly
extensible and allows developers to integrate different communication
protocols for data synchronization. Common protocols include
WebSockets and WebRTC, but you can also implement custom protocols to
suit your application's specific needs. This flexibility makes Yjs
adaptable to various use cases and network conditions.

